that was some good introductory material
to ipfs which no doubt you are all
completely aware of already because this
is the ipfs community meetup so you will
have some interest in ipfs already a
self-selecting group one may say so
you've had a break found a chance to
think about the points that were made
earlier well now we've got some shorter
talks although I have a tendency to
ramble and we've ordered them roughly in
terms of complexity I'm very simple so
I'm going to go first
and I'll try not to waste too much of
your time I'm going to talk to you about
ipfs is fun but for me if it's not in
your browser it's not fun so I'm going
to talk about putting ipfs in your
browser
Alice sure is going to talk about ipfs X
which is a proposal for a new API for
the Jaso PFS project Hannah's going to
talk about LS in Wikipedia what does
that even mean - LS Wikipedia
interesting proposal in under a second
that's a that's a first time for humans
Dimitri oh my god the mitri is going to
blow minds
he's going to talk to you about a
scaleable p2p pub/sub with gossip sub
that's going to be a super cool - look
I'm really excited that steven has been
drafted in at the last minute to blow
your minds with IP LD we didn't we don't
just have files we have graphs we have
both of the things I PLD the
underpinnings exciting and then pago's
this is all very technical someone's got
to be building things on top of this
otherwise we're just making tools and
that's fun but so pig ass is going to
talk to us about the the mechanics of
how you build actually like a usable
system on top of the D web anyway so
that's me I'm oli I'll do a talk ipfs
London what if you could have ipfs in
your browser has anyone got a DFS in
their browser
shut up what does that even mean
well right so we've got this upgrade
path plan and basically the dream goal
is everyone's running ipfs on their
machines and everyone shares content for
ROP FS that's great but what about HTTP
oh yeah okay well everybody shares URLs
today that begin HTTP colon slash slash
like wicked scheme know about it how do
we live in the kind of the time period
between everybody using centralized
services for everything and the brave
new future they were aiming at which is
decentralized all the things we need a
we need an upgrade path so companion
ipfs companion is the the linchpin right
now of how we intend to allow HTTP and
ipfs to co-exist and work together it's
how we get ipfs in the browser we see
here so that's all words what does it
really mean let's just demo it it's much
easier to do something than to say
something so how do I get content into
ipfs well what's content ask you funded
that's some content if I want to put it
in ipfs I might do something like that
so I've now piped that content into ipfs
and it's given me the cid for the
content so it's done some content
addressing very exciting so I've now got
a CID what can I do with it well I want
something like IP affairs colon colon
slash slash CID I want that to work
right now Google tries really hard it's
like I'm gonna start indexing all of FS
maybe you know we put Wikipedia on ipfs
maybe Google will start indexing every
CID and maybe that'll work one day but
in the meantime we can kick charge of
our own destiny so over here I've got a
Google sponsored browser but what I've
done is I've upgraded it with IP FS
companion available in the Chrome Web
Store and the Firefox add-on store it's
one of those newfangled web extensions
that works in both the works doesn't
mean it doesn't work I mean that Firefox
and Chrome
almost follow the same API for web
extensions but not quite and is your
question brave or is it so yes it's that
it's public knowledge yes so there was
an interesting like story arc to that
where we spent loads of time adding
additional api's to the old version of
brave which is the current stable
version of brave and then they kind of
patiently allowed us to do that and said
and then quietly decided to switch
everything from like a muon electron
base to chromium and then just as we
shipped it they were like about these
guys it's chromium now but they've been
very supportive and they are now owning
that story they want ipfs in brave so
that is happening and they're planning
that kind of their plan to announce
their new thing I'm going to be careful
not to say too much more but yes brave
we there is a story here okay so we just
saw the doesn't work boring
but what if you had the thing what if
you could say IP affairs : / - Shazam
some content you guys you really
dependent in my ridiculousness some
content that I put in my local IP FS
repo is now available to my local
browser incredible so the web extension
has to do some interesting hacks to make
that work but the long and the short of
it is there's an API that lets you
intercept all outbound requests from
your browser and you can then you don't
have the ability to manipulate the
response object what you can do is say
requests for this should actually be
redirected here so this is one problem
that we're working with right now I
don't know if that's super clear to
everyone but the URLs gone from my nice
shiny ipfs colon slash slash cid which
is the URL you want to it's been
redirected to my local IP FS node which
runs an IP FS gateway like a pub
so I do this gateways are an important
piece of the puzzle they present over
HTTP
the ipfs network so what's happened here
is the web extension is grabbed ipfs
colon slash slash cid and it's
redirected to my local node gateway very
exciting
the first problem you'll see with that
is how am I going to share that with a
friend this is one two seven zero zero
one a very popular IP address on the
Internet I don't know if you've seen
that around this big lots of people
share it it's meaningless you can't
share it with friends this is where ipfs
got your back so copy public gateway URL
ooh but let's go to a browser that
doesn't know about ipfs well so what's
happened here this one has not got
companion installed so we've gone to
ipfs tayo slash ipfs cid and it's loaded
the content over the old mechanism that
will call HTTP and it's loaded it from
some infrastructure that ipfs protocol
runs is that a single point of failure
yes it is the thing about of any but the
whole point is that the HTTP gateways
provide an important stepping stone to
getting people who are not on our TFS on
ipfs and they are generic pieces of
infrastructure that anyone can run
anyone you say yes anyone so what if say
our noble sponsors CloudFlare com were
to run their own IP FS gateway what I
mean so the thing is right we both want
to save the Internet and we think this
is going to definitely help so they want
to save the Internet we want to save the
Internet will it saves you oh my god
it's gonna save the Internet
here we see some content that little old
me added to little old my ipfs repo and
in suddenly IPF esta io is serving it
well that's crazy but not only that
CloudFlare do i BFS comm is also serving
it incredible its ipfs in the browser
richard Silverton a question
I don't I don't want to riches just
saved my talk from going off on a
tangent this is exactly what I wanted to
say next
and I'd forgotten thanks Richard
Silverton we've never met before
so the question again for the audience
was is that is the extension clever
enough to actually deal with the fact
that it can see that you've gone to an
IP FS HTTP address and say no I'm not
going to serve that over stinky old HTTP
I'm gonna use the decentralized web yes
it can Richard silverton watch this so
the address I'm going to paste in is the
centralized one IP of SiO IVFs
redirected to my local so what it's gone
is to my local running on my machine IP
this gateway and instead of going up
HTTP it has asked the network so it's
very small but over here I'm running an
IP FS demon its gateway is on port 8080
yes what else should I show you okay
well so Lydell who's not here is been
driving that project for a couple of
years now Alan and I did a whole bunch
of work to reinvigorate it make it look
shiny and clean out the guts and so it's
just getting better and better it is an
open source project like all of the IP
FS stuff if you're interested in web
extensions it's a really cool one
so IP FS / ipfs companion is where I go
and send all your wicked contributions
to meanwhile I got bored of writing web
extensions and turned my attention to
the web UI there's an old one has
anyone's in the ipfs web UI some well
it's getting shinier so there's this
open web UI button in companion and in
this beta version that I'm running the
web UI looks entirely different and
it's dark dark mode so it does things
like track your bandwidth over time I
think I'm gonna do is flip back to this
one because I had one running but I
didn't leave it running anyway this
looks nicer that's the main contribution
that I have given to this project we've
also completely rewritten it to be a bit
more maintainable so in the background
what it's doing is some there's some
cool stuff so we're just sort of giving
you an idea of the network traffic so
why is my node talking already well I've
got a list of peers that I'll just
quickly demonstrate I've got a list of
peers connected so this is my swarm the
if you've used BitTorrent you're like oh
my god I've got thousands of people who
I could possibly give me content that's
rad this is kind of pretty if you hit
refresh and it loads any good people
appear why so why so back over here like
I've not hosting really cool content I'm
hosting silly content like cat gifts and
the words welcome to London written in
and asked if I'd fun so why is their
network traffic well one of the things
that's going on in the hood is we try
and dogfood ipfs so this is an IP FS app
on ipfs the cool thing that David dear
certainly touched last geo ipfs geoip so
how do we know where people are we're
not tracking people it's just that you
have to connect via IP addresses if you
happen to be still using boring old ipv4
and you connect to us we can run it
through the geo max mind database that's
I don't know many of your developers
you've all had to do something with the
max my database at some point horrible
process David has made it so much better
he's put the database as a static object
on to ipfs with some cleverness that
means you can just get the portion that
you need so it's can you just say a
couple of words about it okay the point
is you've taken you've taken the
database that is normally a database
that you have to run a process to a
query and you've turned it into a static
index of the data that you can query a
subset or very efficiently over IPS so
and so the reason for the traffic there
I'm not hosting cool content I'm hosting
boring content but there's some traffic
going on I mean I may be hosting
something but some of this traffic is
just the the geoip lookups going
under the hood where the database exists
on piers on the network and the peered I
think you get the point I've said too
many ones bla bla bla
anyway as you'd expect the core of ipfs
it's got file system in the name there
are some files on it it's great I've
uploaded a Debian distro so maybe some
people are getting that from me who
knows that you can we show videos I have
to show this one because it makes me
look like more of an idiot than I am
yeah that's me
so if you have if you have things like
that so what else is going on settings
editor early Explorer bla bla bla bla
this thing's got loads of stuff going on
I'm going to just cut to the other thing
which is we also dog food it in our
continuous slowdown so we use CI like
many good dev shops we rely on CI to
tell us when we break things also it's
nice because I build web apps I quite
like to know that what I've tested is
what is live so we use we use IVFs as
part of our CI service so I've got the
bleeding edge of the web UI on IP if I
start I oh there it's rewritten it and
made it clever and that's clever what I
actually want to show the URL I mean how
long have I been talking for Oh God
start booing when it gets too boring
okay so if you are using IP FS right now
you have access to the version 1 of the
web UI if you want to see what's coming
basically every time we merge some ISA
master web UI diaper FSBO as part of our
build process and I'll show that real
quick because your developers right ipfs
web UI I can normally type except when
people are watching there's a port where
says fix counts in pie charts you know
we're developers we make mistakes
whatever
so that's all cool but let's show the
checks one of the checks is our Jenkins
bot and it's rendered a preview of this
commit where's it rendered it to you
it's really a mess oh my god
so that's the CID so part of the testing
is we build out the deployment version
of the site if you've ever built a web
app you will need to think about
relative URLs again relative paths
that's the key to making it portable
whether it's on the domain or whether
it's under this sub path but if you've
ever been a Java servlet developer this
will be very familiar T one last thing
my baby I love this more than myself
because I have a fragile ego I built the
I feel the Explorer so underneath the
hood you can do it underneath the hood
of the file system view of the world is
the IP LD data model and I built a thing
to explore it but it's not floating now
in the demo
what would you be seeing now okay
imagine that the file system is a tree
and underneath that tree is a directed
acyclic graph of nodes that could have
come from any of your peers and that the
links between nodes in the graph are
Merkel links which is to say they are
content addressed they point to they are
hash hashes of the content they expect
to find at the next node in the graph
this would be exploring that if it was
loading I will try one more time for a
different URL maintain your enthusiasm
no we will move on boring so some other
things to think about DNS links they how
does that all work so web UI is a CID
hash it's less confusing if we remove
that from the thing is a domain but it's
not like physically hosted on just one
server it's hosted on the ipfs network
so how do you like host a website on the
obvious network still keeping domain
names for human friendliness
well DNS links so you have a txt record
in DNS that you update when you want to
change something and the txt record
looks at let me not talk about it let me
show it so I've got web UI BFS do as
Adam
and I'll copy and paste that and I can
query ipfs by saying okay the best DNS I
can say ipfs DNS and it tells me what
the current CID for that domain is what
it's done there is it's gone and checked
the DNS record underscore DNS link in
the txt as the key and then it points to
the current IP FS path which is open
festered editor so then when our CI
service does build we merge the master
we have a script that just tells our DNS
provider to go and update that txt
record so then if so what happens in
people who don't run companion is that
it then hits our HTTP gateway and it
will find the content on the network and
serve it if you are in a companion
companion will just redirect to this am
i just standing in front of it am I
talking about something that you can't
see
it'll just redirect your browser to that
CID instead of trying to bother the HTTP
go away anyway that's enough for me
thank you very much
I've been on
[Applause]